Today, I'm going to show you an amazing
scalping strategy that takes advantage
of the first 90 minutes of the market
open. It's called the quick flip
scalper. It's repeatable, it's
effective, and best of all, it is
simple. My name is Carl. I've been
trading for 20 years. One of the biggest
things that I've learned is that the
utmost majority of all the money that
traders make will take place in the
first 90 minutes. For us traders, this
is our bread and butter. If you want to
increase your chances of becoming a
successful trader, you've got to master
this market open. And to master it,
you've simply got to have the right
trading strategy, otherwise it's game
over. In today's video, I'm going to
show you how to use the quick flip
scalper strategy in just three simple
steps. I will present it the exact same
way it was shown to me back in 2011, and
the same way I have taught hundreds of
other traders. We have all used it day
in and day out to make solid trades for
years. Then, after explaining the
three-step strategy, I will take that
process, and I will trade the quick flip
scalper in a live market so that you
know how to apply it.
Let's get started. I love this quick
flip scalper. I've built a 15-plus year
trading career off of this strategy.
Most people I show it to like it as well
because it's straightforward, and it
doesn't require any complex structure.
Let's jump into the three steps. Step
one is to box the opening range candle.
Let me show you how.
Open whatever asset you are trading on a
15-minute chart. For this example, I'm
going to use Nasdaq 100,
but it works with any asset. Just make
sure it's a 15-minute chart. From there,
let the first 15 minutes of the market
open pass,
allowing that candle to completely
close. Once that candle has closed, use
the box drawing tool to connect the
highest price point we see, so this very
top of the wick, which says 24675.
We are going to connect that with the
lowest price point we see, which is
24502,
and we're going to box that range in,
and we're going to extend [music] it
into the future. And that's all for step
one. I told you it was going to be
simple. So, this is all you need to do.
Just box in the high to low range,
[music] and then extend it. Now, let's
move on to step number two, which is a
crucial step, and the step is to confirm
that this candle is a liquidity candle.
Most likely it is, and I will explain
why soon. And if it is, we are on to
something special. A liquidity candle is
a fast, aggressive candle moving up or
down.
The direction doesn't matter. It's fast,
it's aggressive, and it's moving in one
direction. But it's more than just a
candle, it's an emotional event, and
that is where the edge is. When traders
worldwide see this, their very first
instinct is to chase into that strength
or weakness, fearing that they will miss
out on that trading opportunity. And
that's exactly what these candles and
the price movements are designed to do,
to pull [music] in
inexperienced retail traders to create
liquidity for the big [music]
institutions to get in and out of their
trades. This price movement actually
needs to happen in order for those
institutions
to get [music] in and out of their
positions, and that is why you'll see
them almost every day. This [music]
often involves a
a stop hunt, where the price
aggressively moves in one direction to
trigger clusters of stop losses from us
retail traders. These triggered stops
will create a liquidity pool
liquidity pool that the large
institutions need in order to [music]
fill their positions without negatively
affecting the price. Without this
engineered liquidity, the big players
wouldn't be able to execute their trades
at least not efficiently without
negatively affecting their entry and
exit levels. The best explanation comes
from old-school trader Dr. David Paul.
The best trades occur after the masses
have been stopped out. That's because
the big fellows up there, they can't
press the wee button and get in because
there's just not enough
liquidity there for them to get in in
size. So, they have to in fact engineer
100,000 guys like you, sir. Pull you one
way, your stop loss gets hit, that in
fact sets off a sea of liquidity for
them to get in. So, yeah, these candles,
they are engineered, and that is why I
like to call them manipulation candles,
and they happen almost daily so that
these big players [music] can get in and
out of their trades. So, the most
important thing to understand how this
quick flip scalper takes advantage of
this very phenomenon is that when you
see these candles, most of the time the
candle is reversed. And right there,
that's the strategy. That is the edge
that we will be using. Now, if there's
any doubt in your mind whether or not
the candle you are looking at is or is
not a manipulation candle, let me show
you a quick and easy way to figure that
out. So, what we want to do is to switch
to a daily chart of the asset that we
are trading,
and we're going to add the average true
range indicator. You don't have to make
any adjustments to it, just use the
default settings of 14 days. This
indicator will give us a numerical
value. In this case, for Nasdaq, it is
420 points. Let's go ahead and make the
math a little bit easier and write 400
points.
What does this 400 points represent?
Well, they represent the average range
of Nasdaq 100 in the last 14 days.
So, it's either up 400 points or down
400 points on any average day. So, the
trading range is one of the most
important parameters for us as traders,
whether you use this quick flip scalper
or not. Here is what we want to
determine back on the 15-minute chart,
if the size of this candle that we just
boxed in is 25% or more
of that daily range, then it is a
manipulation candle. So, here's the
basic math to figure that out. We take
these 400 points, right, and we multiply
it with 25%.
And you will have
points.
So, if the high of that candle
to the low of that candle exceeds 100
points,
it is in fact a manipulation candle. So,
you will see that the very low of this
candle is 24,502
points, and the very high is 24,675
points.
And yeah, that is well outside the 100
points range, so this is definitely a
manipulation candle. So, one thing to
think about is that if it's at 95 points
or 90 points, let's say that it's around
22, 23%, don't sweat the details. You
can still use it, but if it's 25% or
more, that is a dead giveaway that it's
being manipulated. So, that wraps up
step number two, which also was pretty
simple, right? Now, let's move on to the
third and last step, which is to make
the perfect entry.
This is going to be pretty simple, too.
So, here is what we are going to do.
We're going to go back to that 15-minute
chart, and we're going to move it to a
smaller time frame, and that can be the
5-minute time frame or anything below
that. So, we can do 3-minute, we can do
2-minute, and we can even do the
1-minute time frame. I prefer to use the
5-minute because that is what I'm used
to,
and that's what I'm going to use now for
the rest of this demonstration.
Now, from here, what we need, which is
the most important part of the video, we
need one out of two types of candles to
appear.
They need to appear outside the range
outside the range that we boxed in in
step one, and I say it's the most
important part because if none of these
candles appear, the price is not ready
to be reversed. That movement could
actually continue for 20 minutes, 30
minutes, 40 minutes, or an hour, or like
the rest of the freaking day. It can
just keep on going. And we want one of
these two candles to appear, again,
outside the box range, and we want them
to appear within 90 minutes of the
market open.
So, if that doesn't happen, the
opportunity is lost, and we will not
take the trade. [music] If you know
about reversal candlesticks, if you
watch some of my old videos, you already
know what the two types of candles are.
Two candles that I'm going to be looking
for are going to be either the hammer or
the inverted hammer candle, or the
bullish or bearish engulfing candle.
Here's why these two candles are
important and why they must be used in
this trade setup. Let's start with the
hammer candle on the long side. So, this
must come after a clear red negative
price movement. The
confirmation comes from within the wick
[music] itself, right here.
This wick represents that the largest
buyer took advantage of that liquidity,
and the institutions bought into that
weakness. And I've said in past videos
that you have to think about it this
way, that if someone [music] with that
amount of buying power is going to step
in here and buy that dip, it's not going
to go lower in most cases, and that is
where the edge is. They're just too big,
they are too strong, and they have
announced their intentions, and most
likely the price will go higher from
here. Again, not all the time, but most
of the time it will. The entry is going
to be very simple. We're going to wait
for the break of the candle, and we're
going to enter the trade in the opening
of the next [music] candle.
So, we're going to enter the trade here.
And the stop loss will be set at the
low.
The inverted hammer would be something
that comes after a clear positive green
movement.
You would have the wick coming from the
top. Again, the confirmation comes from
within the wick itself, right here.
The entry would be at the break of the
next 5-minute candle here, and the stop
loss would be put slightly above [music]
the high here.
Now, the engulfing candles have the
exact same significance, but they look
different. They are called engulfing
because this large candle here
fully engulfs the previous smaller
candle.
For engulfing candlesticks, though, I
like to set the entry level already at
the high of the previous candle. So, for
the bullish engulfing candle, I would
set my long entry already here at the
high of this red candle, and I would
place the stop loss at the low of the
engulfing candle.
And for bearish engulfing candles, we
enter the short trade already at the low
of the previous green candle. So, that
would [music] be
here.
And we place the stop loss at the high.
So, if you didn't follow that, don't
worry. We're going to go through this
step by step now. Oh, let's go ahead and
open up the Nasdaq 100 chart again. So,
the day started with this positive green
liquidity candle, which means that we
are now looking for negative reversals
somewhere above this range. So, we're
looking for inverted hammers or bearish
engulfers [music] above the boxed range.
If today would have been a negative red
liquidity candle, we would instead be
looking for positive reversal
candlesticks like the hammer or the
bullish engulfing candle, and we would
look for it below the boxed range. So,
let's see how this day continues. So,
this is on the 15-minute chart. We've
confirmed that it's a positive liquidity
candle,
and we have drawn up the box into the
future. So, we're now going to go into a
lower time frame to look for the
reversal. I will use the 5-minute one.
Let's see what happens. We see that the
price continues up from here
for a couple of candles.
It's not ready to be reversed yet, but
around here, around 45 minutes after the
opening, something happens. You should
be seeing what I'm seeing now, which is
a inverted hammer candlestick.
So, the entry would be very
straightforward. We would enter the
trade here at the break of the next
candle.
We set the stop above the high, and then
we set the target profit at the bottom
of the box that we've just drawn.
So, the box that we drew has another
purpose than just showing where we are
looking for the reversals. It actually
gives us two irrelevant target profit
levels.
One is the high of the opening, and the
second one is the low of the opening
that I just used. So, our trade is set.
Let's see how this plays out. By the
way, I feel that I just have to mention
this. So, the win rate is actually
higher if you include the 15 minutes
prior to the opening. Not all brokers
offer prices outside market hours, but
if you are interested in that, uh
there's a link to the description to the
broker that I use. They are called IG.
Just register for an CFD account, and
you can get access to these instruments.
So, for the next minutes, we are just
messing around this price level.
Uh
we're not really going anywhere. We're
not hitting the stop loss. But then, as
you can see, the price eventually goes
lower. And if we go even further, we see
that we actually reach the target profit
here at the bottom of the range. So, it
was a successful trade. We entered the
trade at 24,872.
We put the stop loss at 24,900.
Uh we set the target profit at 24,610.
So, the trade had a 28-point stop loss
with a 212-points
win. So, that's pretty good, right? And
this isn't cherry-picked. If we look
back, we had this pattern here, too.
The day had a negative red liquidity
open. It reversed down here, and then
finished higher. The day before that, we
had a green open, but it reversed. And
the day before that, we had a red open.
It reversed, and it finished green.
Almost every time it reverses. So, the
strategy works great with these
liquidity events, and they appear
because
the big institutions need them to enter
and exit their positions. Over 255 years
of trading history, and they are
everywhere. Now, let me show you how to
trade this live. It's already 11:00
a.m., so I've missed the open, but I
will be back tomorrow to trade this
together with you. Okay, good morning,
guys. It's about 10 minutes until the
market opens. Remember the steps. We are
dialing in the 15-minute opening range.
We are confirming that it's a liquidity
candle,
and we are looking for a reversal candle
outside the range. If we don't get these
three things today, then I will come
back tomorrow, uh but if you are
watching this, it means uh that I kept
it, and spoiler alert, it means that it
is happening today.
I forgot to mention this yesterday, but
these liquidity events are often more
prominent in [music] individual stocks
than in these big indexes. The indexes
often has more base liquidity, which
means that these manipulation candles
are sometimes not needed to the same
extent for these big institutions. But
as I showed you yesterday, they are
there in the big indexes, too. With that
said, I'm going to trade this today on
an individual stock instead to show you
that the quick flip scalper works very
well on that, too, possibly even better.
And I think I will do it with the
highest volume stock these days, which
is Nvidia. So, the market opens in about
2 minutes. Uh let's start by finding out
what the average true range is.
So, I'm going to pull up [music] the
daily chart. I'm going to add the
average true range indicator.
The average true range is 8.07 bucks.
So, I will write that down.
Let's go back to the 15-minute time
frame.
Now, the market opens in
a couple of seconds,
and uh here we go.
So, okay. It's opening with a small gap
upwards,
and now it's moving south. Remember, we
are waiting for the candlestick to close
before we can confirm that it's a
liquidity candle.
And for it to be a liquidity candle, it
has to be 25% or more of the average
true range of the last 14 days.
While we wait for the 15-minute candle
to close, we could actually already now
calculate what that is. Average true
range was 8.07 bucks. To make it easier,
let's say 8 bucks.
And 25%
of that is 2 bucks. So, that means that
if this candle will close with a range
that is more than 2 bucks, then it is a
liquidity candle. Okay, so now it's uh
30 seconds until this 15-minute candle
closes. It's not a perfect-looking
liquidity candle, as we have this uh
this wick here, but I I think it's I
think it's good enough. Preferably, we
wouldn't have it, but I think it's okay.
The range is clearly exceeding 2 bucks,
though.
It's closer to five or even six bucks.
And there it's closed, so it's confirmed
that it's a liquidity candle. Okay, so
now let's take the box drawing tool.
Let's connect the highest price point
and the lowest price point, and [music]
then we extend it into the future.
And I'm only extending it for 75 minutes
from here,
uh because after that, we don't want to
enter the trade. So, any reversal after
these 90 minutes are irrelevant. We only
enter trades within the first 90 minutes
of the market open. So, the low is at
176, and the high is at 182. Okay, so
that's the first two steps. There is
only one step left, and that is to find
the reversal. Okay, so this 15-minute
opening range that we just made a box
out of will be of big significance for
the rest of the day. Now, the only
remaining thing, the last and third
step, is to wait for the reversal candle
outside of this range. As this liquidity
candle was negative, we are looking for
one of the two bullish reversal
candlesticks at any place below this
range. And if you remember, we do that
on a lower time frame.
So, I'm changing the chart down to a
5-minute time frame. And uh now we just
wait. So, if we don't get this reversal
candlestick within 90 minutes, then we
don't trade it. We will get another
chance tomorrow. So, there's nothing to
do but to continue waiting. So, some
buyers are getting in here, but
not yet a full reversal. I think there
are still
uh some big players that are going to
get in here. So,
uh I suspect we might go even lower.
Okay, here's another hammer candle, but
again, the hammer is inside the range,
with
um which makes it invalid. We want to
see a hammer candle or a bullish
engulfing candle after a strong [music]
clear downward movement and below the
range. Okay, we continue down from here.
That's a big red candle, and we're now
actually outside the range, and another
big candle. If we would get some kind of
reversal pattern here, down below the
range, then that's the time to enter the
trade. Okay, so look at that. We have
a strong green candle here that could
become a engulfing candle, but I'm going
to place my limit order entry level here
at the height of the red candle at
175.15.
So, if the price goes up to this level,
it is in fact a bullish engulfing
candlestick. So, that's where we want to
enter the trade.
So, let's see. The price is
still going up. Let's see what happens.
Okay, we got it. We're now in the trade.
I will put the stop loss
down here
below the low
at
172.5.
And I will put the target [music] profit
at the top of this range
which is at 182.3.
So, that makes the stop loss around 2.65
bucks. The target profit is seven bucks.
So, that is a risk-reward ratio of uh
2.7
or something like that. So, let's see if
this reversal holds true. There are no
guarantees in trading.
Um
there are just probabilities, and this
trade has a high probability of
uh of profit. So, let's see where it
goes. So, it's uh continuing upwards
actually. It's uh still strong. We have
a little bit of a hesitation here.
Still a long way to the stop loss
though. They I think this looks pretty
good. I think we have some good chances
to see this uh trade go through today.
Okay, look at that. Price is now back in
the range, and that's promising.
Okay, so it's continuing up. Now, we've
been going sideways for a while, and at
this point I would uh consider just
stopping the trade and taking the win
and call it a day as as we're so close
to the target profit already.
But, just for the sake of the video, I'm
going to stay in the trade, and I'm
going to see what happens. But, I'm
actually going to move the stop loss to
the bottom of the range here at 176,
so that we are at least in the money.
Okay, so now we got our target profit.
And to be honest, I was zoning out for a
while. The time is now 1:45 p.m., and uh
made a great trade. Uh this trade,
admittedly, is a little bit longer than
usual. Uh normally, you're in and out
[music] from the trade a lot faster.
Okay, guys, that's going to conclude
today's video. I hope you found value in
this quick flip scalper strategy. And if
you're interested, I have another one
candlestick strategy that is very very
effective, but still super simple.
If you are interested in that, give this
video a thumbs up. Let me know in the
comments. Uh and I can make a video for
that one, too. And I want to end with
one reminder, that is that historic
results are no guarantee for future
results. So, even though this edge has
been proven to be effective over many
decades, it might stop working. And
also, although very strong on most
markets, this edge definitely works
better with some markets and worse in
others. So, please evaluate the edge
regularly, and as always, take care.
Trade well. Thank you, guys, for
watching. I will talk to you again soon.
Bye.